CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing guide to Octoposh

- [Asking Questions](#asking-questions)
- [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
- [Sending PRs](#sending-prs)
  - [Submitting a bug fix](#submitting-a-bug-fix)
  - [Submitting a new cmdlet/functionality](#submitting-a-new-cmdletfunctionality)
  - [Submitting changes to the built-in module help](#submitting-changes-to-the-built-in-module-help)
  - [Submitting changes to the wiki](#submitting-changes-to-the-wiki)
- [Setting up the development environment](#setting-up-the-development-environment)
  - [Dev machine requirements](#dev-machine-requirements)
  - [Running the unit tests](#running-the-unit-tests)
  - [Running the Cake Build](#running-the-cake-build)
- [Working on the code](#working-on-the-code)
  - [Branches](#branches)
  - [Working with cmdlets](#adding-a-new-cmdlet)
  - [Writing Tests](#writing-tests)
  - [Adding Test Data](#adding-test-data)
  

## Asking Questions

- *How do I do [x] with the module?*
- *Can you add a new cmdlet to do [x] to the module?*
- *Can I get some help setting up the Dev environment to start working on the module code myself?*
- *Which is your favorite JJBA arc*

Please ask all these questions in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial)

## Reporting Bugs

Go to the project's [Gitter Channel ](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial) and ask over there is the behavior you are seeing is a bug or not. Try to give as much data as possible to reproduce the issue. One of the project maintainers will reply back and create a Github Issue if the reported behavior actually needs a code change. 

## Sending PR's

We've all been in that situation where we send a PR and the Project owner doesn't merge it because of reasons. So as a general rule: always ask in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial) before you dedicate your precious time in a PR.

### Submitting a bug fix

Before you start working on a fix, make sure it is an actual bug by asking in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial). All bug fixes must have their correspondent unit tests.

### Submitting a new cmdlet/functionality

Octoposh was built as an easy way to interact with the Octopus API/Octopus.Client through Powershell. The idea is that It is a **Toolbox** and not a **Spell Book** . 

The cmdlets should do small and very specific things that, put together, should help users achieving big things.

A brief example:  *Lets say you want to Disable all the Tentacles whose name's start with  *"Prod_"* .*

A **Tool-y** approach would be something like:

```powershell
#First a cmdlet that only gets the Tentacles you need
$Tentacles = Get-OctopusTentacle -Name Prod_*

#Then a foreach loop to disable each machine
foreach($tentacle in $tentacles ){
  $tentacle.resource.status = "Disabled"
  
  Update-OctopusResource -resource $tentacle.resource
}
```

A **Spell-y/Magical** approach would be

```powershell
#A one liner that does exactly what you want
Disable-Tentacles -name Prod_*
```

Before you submit any kind of PR for new functionality, please discuss it first with the project owners in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial) . We don't want you to spend a lot of time on something that might never get merged :pray:.

Of course, every PR must have their respective Unit tests.

### Submitting changes to the built-in module help

When you run `Get-Help -name CmdletName` , the help text that you see comes from the XML Documentation comments at the top of each cmdlet. For example if you wanted to send a PR for the cmdlet `Get-OctopusMachine`, you should be looking at:

- For the cmdles description and examples look at [these lines in the code](https://github.com/Dalmirog/OctoPosh/blob/master/Octoposh/Cmdlets/GetOctopusMachine.cs#L11-L40) 
- For the parameter's help text look at the XML comment at the top of each parameter [like this](https://github.com/Dalmirog/OctoPosh/blob/master/Octoposh/Cmdlets/GetOctopusMachine.cs#L52-L58)

### Submitting changes to the wiki

The source code of the wiki is split between 2 sources:

1) Each cmdlet's help page under the `Cmdlets` section is programmatically generated from the output of `Get-Help -name CmdletName`. So if you want to submit a fix to that, you'll need to make the changes to the XML comment help in the `[cmdletname].cs` file. The changes will be reflected in the wiki during the next build.

2) The `Getting Started`,`Advanced Usage` and `Release Notes` sections are raw markdown files under `[ProjectRoot]/docs` that you can edit manually. Those changes will be reflected as soon as the PR is merged to master.

## Setting up the development environment

### Dev machine requirements

- SQL Server 2012+. Can be Express
- Octopus Server 3.17+ Installed. No need to have the Tentacle installed.
- .NET CORE 2.0.
- Latest Visual Studio 2017.

### Running the unit tests

All the tests for the Octoposh module are in the `Octoposh.Tests` project. These tests depend on some specific test data which can be programmatically generated using the `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` project. 

For both projects, make sure to enter the Octopus Username(needs to be admin on the instance), password and Octopus Instance port in their respective `app.config` and `appConfig.json` files.

Once the `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` console runs successfully, you should be able to run the NUnit3 tests. You should be able to run the `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` console as many times as you want and it shouldn't have problems with existing data.

### Running the Cake build

WIP

## Working on the code

### Branches

  - `Master` should always contain exactly what's in Production/PowershellGallery at the moment. Do not submit PRs against this branch.
  
  - `Development` is the only branch that will be merged to `Master`. All PRs should be submitted using a separate branch based on `Development`, and will eventually be merged to `Development`.

### Working with cmdlets

WIP

### Writing Tests

Each cmdlet has its own class file with tests on it. Check the tests with XML comments on them in the file below for examples:

https://github.com/Dalmirog/OctoPosh/blob/master/Octoposh.Tests/GetOctopusMachineTests.cs

### Adding Test Data

The project `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` is in charge of adding the test data needed by the tests to an Octopus Instance. As every console project, it starts from `program.cs`, which then runs a set of Fixtures under the `Fixtures` namespace. Try opening all the fixtures to understand what each one does and how to extend them/add your own data.

The console was built with the idea that it should be re-runable at all times, regardless of the existing data on the Octopus Instance. For example: If a resource that the console is trying to create already exists, It'll fetch it, reconfigure it as detailed in the fixture and then save it. In very few cases (like creating releases) the resource will be deleted and re-created from scratch.

To run the project simply set the connection data in the `appSettings.json` file, compile it and then run:

`dotnet.exe run Octoposh.TestDataGenerator.dll`

Commit message:

adding info about working on the module

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing guide to Octoposh

- [Asking Questions](#asking-questions)
- [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
- [Sending PRs](#sending-prs)
  - [Submitting a bug fix](#submitting-a-bug-fix)
  - [Submitting a new cmdlet/functionality](#submitting-a-new-cmdletfunctionality)
  - [Submitting changes to the built-in module help](#submitting-changes-to-the-built-in-module-help)
  - [Submitting changes to the wiki](#submitting-changes-to-the-wiki)
- [Setting up the development environment](#setting-up-the-development-environment)
  - [Dev machine requirements](#dev-machine-requirements)
  - [Running the unit tests](#running-the-unit-tests)
  - [Running the Cake Build](#running-the-cake-build)
- [Working on the code](#working-on-the-code)
  - [Branches](#branches)
  - [Working on the Octoposh Module](#Working-on-the-Octoposh-Module)
  - [Writing Tests](#writing-tests)
  - [Adding Test Data](#adding-test-data)
  

## Asking Questions

- *How do I do [x] with the module?*
- *Can you add a new cmdlet to do [x] to the module?*
- *Can I get some help setting up the Dev environment to start working on the module code myself?*
- *Which is your favorite JJBA arc*

Please ask all these questions in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial)

## Reporting Bugs

Go to the project's [Gitter Channel ](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial) and ask over there is the behavior you are seeing is a bug or not. Try to give as much data as possible to reproduce the issue. One of the project maintainers will reply back and create a Github Issue if the reported behavior actually needs a code change. 

## Sending PR's

We've all been in that situation where we send a PR and the Project owner doesn't merge it because of reasons. So as a general rule: always ask in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial) before you dedicate your precious time in a PR.

### Submitting a bug fix

Before you start working on a fix, make sure it is an actual bug by asking in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial). All bug fixes must have their correspondent unit tests.

### Submitting a new cmdlet/functionality

Octoposh was built as an easy way to interact with the Octopus API/Octopus.Client through Powershell. The idea is that It is a **Toolbox** and not a **Spell Book** . 

The cmdlets should do small and very specific things that, put together, should help users achieving big things.

A brief example:  *Lets say you want to Disable all the Tentacles whose name's start with  *"Prod_"* .*

A **Tool-y** approach would be something like:

```powershell
#First a cmdlet that only gets the Tentacles you need
$Tentacles = Get-OctopusTentacle -Name Prod_*

#Then a foreach loop to disable each machine
foreach($tentacle in $tentacles ){
  $tentacle.resource.status = "Disabled"
  
  Update-OctopusResource -resource $tentacle.resource
}
```

A **Spell-y/Magical** approach would be

```powershell
#A one liner that does exactly what you want
Disable-Tentacles -name Prod_*
```

Before you submit any kind of PR for new functionality, please discuss it first with the project owners in the project's [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/Dalmirog/OctoPosh#initial) . We don't want you to spend a lot of time on something that might never get merged :pray:.

Of course, every PR must have their respective Unit tests.

### Submitting changes to the built-in module help

When you run `Get-Help -name CmdletName` , the help text that you see comes from the XML Documentation comments at the top of each cmdlet. For example if you wanted to send a PR for the cmdlet `Get-OctopusMachine`, you should be looking at:

- For the cmdles description and examples look at [these lines in the code](https://github.com/Dalmirog/OctoPosh/blob/master/Octoposh/Cmdlets/GetOctopusMachine.cs#L11-L40) 
- For the parameter's help text look at the XML comment at the top of each parameter [like this](https://github.com/Dalmirog/OctoPosh/blob/master/Octoposh/Cmdlets/GetOctopusMachine.cs#L52-L58)

### Submitting changes to the wiki

The source code of the wiki is split between 2 sources:

1) Each cmdlet's help page under the `Cmdlets` section is programmatically generated from the output of `Get-Help -name CmdletName`. So if you want to submit a fix to that, you'll need to make the changes to the XML comment help in the `[cmdletname].cs` file. The changes will be reflected in the wiki during the next build.

2) The `Getting Started`,`Advanced Usage` and `Release Notes` sections are raw markdown files under `[ProjectRoot]/docs` that you can edit manually. Those changes will be reflected as soon as the PR is merged to master.

## Setting up the development environment

### Dev machine requirements

- SQL Server 2012+. Can be Express
- Octopus Server 3.17+ Installed. No need to have the Tentacle installed.
- .NET CORE 2.0.
- Latest Visual Studio 2017.

### Running the unit tests

All the tests for the Octoposh module are in the `Octoposh.Tests` project. These tests depend on some specific test data which can be programmatically generated using the `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` project. 

For both projects, make sure to enter the Octopus Username(needs to be admin on the instance), password and Octopus Instance port in their respective `app.config` and `appConfig.json` files.

Once the `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` console runs successfully, you should be able to run the NUnit3 tests. You should be able to run the `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` console as many times as you want and it shouldn't have problems with existing data.

### Running the Cake build

WIP

## Working on the code

### Branches

  - `Master` should always contain exactly what's in Production/PowershellGallery at the moment. Do not submit PRs against this branch.
  
  - `Development` is the only branch that will be merged to `Master`. All PRs should be submitted using a separate branch based on `Development`, and will eventually be merged to `Development`.

### Working on the Octoposh Module

The project `Octoposh` builds the DLL that represents the module. To debug it go to `[Project Properties] -> Debug -> Command Line Arguemnts` and set the URL and API key of the Octopus Instance that you'll be running the module against. Try not to touch anything else on that field.

Then hit `F5` and once the build compiles, it will open a Powershell session with the module loaded. At this point the code will halt at breakpoints like in any debug session.

### Writing Tests

Each cmdlet has its own class file with tests on it. Check the tests with XML comments on them in the file below for examples:

https://github.com/Dalmirog/OctoPosh/blob/master/Octoposh.Tests/GetOctopusMachineTests.cs

### Adding Test Data

The project `Octoposh.TestDataGenerator` is in charge of adding the test data needed by the tests to an Octopus Instance. As every console project, it starts from `program.cs`, which then runs a set of Fixtures under the `Fixtures` namespace. Try opening all the fixtures to understand what each one does and how to extend them/add your own data.

The console was built with the idea that it should be re-runable at all times, regardless of the existing data on the Octopus Instance. For example: If a resource that the console is trying to create already exists, It'll fetch it, reconfigure it as detailed in the fixture and then save it. In very few cases (like creating releases) the resource will be deleted and re-created from scratch.

To run the project simply set the connection data in the `appSettings.json` file, compile it and then run:

`dotnet.exe run Octoposh.TestDataGenerator.dll`
